Letter from Project Manager

Watershed Properties is a residential property management company. We manage several thousand properties in more than 60 different neighborhoods around the United States. We are very proud of our relationship with our property owners and our tenants, which allows us to keep our overall property occupancy rates at a very attractive 97.3%.

Like most traditional property managers, Watershed has thus far exclusively managed long-term leases that typically require tenants to live in a property for a year or more, and pay monthly rent. However, the real estate business has begun extending into a different market: short-term rentals. Short-term tenants, or "guests," pay rent by the night rather than by the month, and are located and communicated with through increasingly popular websites like Airbnb. We would like to know whether Watershed should expand into this short-term rental market.

Watershed currently has a time-sensitive opportunity to explore the short-term rental market with one of its top property owners, who has expressed interest in working with Watershed to convert some of its long-term rental properties to short-term rental properties. We would like you to (1) calculate how much it would cost to convert and maintain each of this client’s properties as a short-term rental, and (2) determine the nightly rental price that would maximize the profits from each of these properties, if they were converted to short-term rentals. We would then like you to use this information to, (3) calculate which properties would have increased profits as short-term rentals, and (4) determine how profitable, overall, it would be if Watershed converted some of this client's properties into short-term rentals. You will also (5) need to determine how much cash Watershed would need in order to realize any potential profits from converting the properties. We would like you to synthesize this information into a succinct business recommendation: Should Watershed enter the short-term rental market using some of this client’s property portfolio, or not? If so, which properties should be converted first? You will be presenting your recommendation to Watershed executives in a 5-minute long business presentation in the last week of this project.

We look forward to hearing your recommendation!

Bryan Smithfield

Project Manager, Watershed Properties